Project 1: Introduction to Neural Networks: ReneWind

Description
-----------
Business Context

Renewable energy sources play an increasingly important role in the global energy mix, as the effort to reduce the environmental impact of energy production increases.
Out of all the renewable energy alternatives, wind energy is one of the most developed technologies worldwide. The U.S. Department of Energy has put together a guide to achieving operational efficiency using predictive maintenance practices.
Predictive maintenance uses sensor information and analysis methods to measure and predict degradation and future component capability. The idea behind predictive maintenance is that failure patterns are predictable and if component failure can be predicted accurately and the component is replaced before it fails, the costs of operation and maintenance will be much lower.
The sensors fitted across different machines involved in the process of energy generation collect data related to various environmental factors (temperature, humidity, wind speed, etc.) and additional features related to various parts of the wind turbine (gearbox, tower, blades, break, etc.).

Objective
“ReneWind” is a company working on improving the machinery/processes involved in the production of wind energy using machine learning and has collected data on generator failure of wind turbines using sensors. They have shared a ciphered version of the data, as the data collected through sensors is confidential (the type of data collected varies with companies). Data has 40 predictors, 20000 observations in the training set, and 5000 in the test set.
The objective is to build various classification models, tune them, and find the best one that will help identify failures so that the generators can be repaired before failing/breaking to reduce the overall maintenance cost.

The nature of predictions made by the classification model will translate as follows:

True positives (TP) are failures correctly predicted by the model. These will result in repair costs.
False negatives (FN) are real failures where there is no detection by the model. These will result in replacement costs.
False positives (FP) are detections where there is no failure. These will result in inspection costs.
It is given that the cost of repairing a generator is much less than the cost of replacing it, and the cost of inspection is less than the cost of repair.
IC < RepairC < ReplacementC
“1” in the target variable should be considered as “failure” and “0” represents “No failure”.

Data Dictionary

The data provided is a transformed version of the original data which was collected using sensors.
Train.csv - To be used for training and tuning of models.
Test.csv - To be used only for testing the performance of the final best model.
Both datasets consist of 40 predictor variables and 1 target variable.

Submission Guidelines

Kindly go through the instructions below before attempting the project.
The project submission should be asingle Python notebook in HTML (.html) format.
If Jupyter Notebook is used, the Python notebook can be exported as an HTML file from the File menu.
If Google Colab (it is preferable) is used, the Python notebook must first be downloaded as a .ipynb file from Colab. Then, it can be converted and exported as an HTML file using this link.
Any assignment found copied/plagiarized from any source will not be evaluated and awarded zero marks.
Please ensure timely submission as any submission post-deadline will either not be accepted for evaluation or attract penalties.

Important Points to Note

Thoroughlyread the problem statement and project rubricbefore starting to work on the project.
Apply the concepts and techniques you have learned in the previous weeks and summarise your insights at the end.
Pleaserun the code from start to end sequentially,add the observations and insightsas applicable, and thensubmit the file in the mentioned format.
Before submitting the file, please make sure that all the sections mentioned in the rubric have been covered and the code outputs are clearly visible in your submission.
If the code in the submission is correct but not executed, 50% of the marks will be deducted from the corresponding rubric section.
Kindly connect with the Program Manager in case of any confusion.
Power Ahead!

Rubric
-------
Criteria
Exploratory Data Analysis- Data Overview
- Univariate Analysis
- Bivariate Analysis							Points 5

Criteria
Data Preprocessing- Prepare the data for modeling
- Missing Value Treatment

* Ensure there's no data leakage					Points 4

Criteria

Model Building- Choose the metric of choice with a rationale
- Build a Neural Network model with SGD as the optimizer
- Comment on model performance					Points 6

Criteria

Model Performance Improvement and Final Model Selection
- Use combinations (at least 6) of different methods mentioned below to improve the
model performance 
    - More hidden layers
    - Different optimizers (SGD, Adam)
    - Dropout
    - Class Weights
- Comment on model performance for each of the models
- Choose the best model from the ones built with proper reasoning		Points34


Criteria
Actionable Insights & Recommendations
Conclude with the key takeaways (actionable insights
 and recommendations) for the business					Points3

Criteria
Notebook Overall Quality- Structure and flow
- Well commented code
- Conclusion and Business Recommendations				Points8
