Project: Model Deployment: SuperKart


Description
------------
Business Context
A sales forecast predicts future sales revenue based on historical data, industry trends, and the status of the current sales pipeline. Businesses use the sales forecast to estimate weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual sales totals. A company needs to make an accurate sales forecast as it adds value across an organization and helps the different verticals to chalk out their future course of action.


Forecasting helps an organization plan its sales operations by region and provides valuable insights to the supply chain team regarding the procurement of goods and materials. An accurate sales forecast process has many benefits, which include improved decision-making about the future and the reduction of sales pipeline and forecast risks. Moreover, it helps to reduce the time spent in planning territory coverage and establishes benchmarks that can be used to assess trends in the future.

Objective

SuperKart is a retail chain operating supermarkets and food marts across various tier cities, offering a wide range of products. To optimize its inventory management and make informed decisions around regional sales strategies, SuperKart wants to accurately forecast the sales revenue of its outlets for the upcoming quarter.


To operationalize these insights at scale, the company has partnered with a data science firm, not just to build a predictive model based on historical sales data but also to develop and deploy a robust forecasting solution that can be integrated into SuperKart’s decision-making systems and used across its network of stores.

Data Dictionary

The data contains the different attributes of the various products and stores.
Product_Id: Unique identifier of each product, each identifier having two letters at the beginning, followed by a number
Product_Weight: Weight of each product
Product_Sugar_Content: Sugar content of each product, like low sugar, regular, and no sugar
Product_Allocated_Area: Ratio of the allocated display area of each product to the total display area of all the products in a store
Product_Type: Broad category for each product like meat, snack foods, hard drinks, dairy, canned, soft drinks, health and hygiene, baking goods, bread, breakfast, frozen foods, fruits and vegetables, household, seafood, starchy foods, others
Product_MRP: Maximum retail price of each product
Store_Id: Unique identifier of each store
Store_Establishment_Year: Year in which the store was established
Store_Size: Size of the store, depending on sq. feet, like high, medium, and low
Store_Location_City_Type: Type of city in which the store is located, like Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3. Tier 1 consists of cities where the standard of living is comparatively higher than that of its Tier 2 and Tier 3 counterparts
Store_Type: Type of store depending on the products that are being sold there, like Departmental Store, Supermarket Type 1, Supermarket Type 2, and Food Mart
Product_Store_Sales_Total: Total revenue generated by the sale of that particular product in that particular store

Submission Guidelines

Kindly go through the instructions below before attempting the project.
The project submission should be asingle Python notebook in HTML (.html) format.
In case Jupyter Notebook is being used, the Python notebook can be exported as an HTML file from the File menu.
In case Google Colab (preferable) is being used, the Python notebook needs to be first downloaded as a .ipynb file from Colab and can then be converted and exported as an HTML file usingthis link.
Any assignment foundcopied/plagiarized from any source will not be evaluated and awarded zero marks.
Please ensure timely submission asany submission post-deadline will either not be accepted for evaluation or attract penalties.

Important Points to Note

Thoroughlyread the problem statement and project rubricbefore starting to work on the project.
Apply the concepts and techniques you have learned in the previous weeks and summarise your insights at the end.
Pleaserun the code from start to end sequentially,add the observations and insightsas applicable, and thensubmit the file in the mentioned format.
Before submitting the file, pleasemake sure that all the sections mentioned in the rubric have been coveredand thecode outputs are clearly visiblein your submission.
Add the link to the Hugging Face Spaces for the frontend and backend of the deployed model in your notebook. Please ensure that the spaces are public.
If the code in the submission is correct but not executed, 50% of the marks will be deducted from the corresponding rubric section.
Kindly connect with the Program Manager in case of any confusion.
Power Ahead!

Rubric
-------

Criteria
Data Overview and Exploratory Data Analysis- Observations on the shape of data, data types of various attributes, missing values, duplicate values and statistical summary.
- Univariate Analysis (boxplots, distribution plots for important variables)
- Bivariate Analysis
- Insights based on EDA


Points6




Criteria
Data Preprocessing- Feature engineering (provide rationale if not needed)
- Outlier detection and treatment (provide rationale if treatment is not needed)
- Prepare the data for analysis (Train and Test sets)
- Define the preprocessing pipeline for encoding categorical features


Points5




Criteria
Model Building- Choose the metric of choice with proper rationale
- Build any 2 ML models as a part of a pipeline with the data preprocessing steps
- Comment of the performance of the models
* The ML models to be built can be any two out of Decision Tree, Bagging, Random Forest, AdaBoost, Gradient Boosting, and XGBoost


Points7




Criteria
Model Performance Improvement - Hyperparameter Tuning- Use hyperparameter tuning to tune the models wrt the metric of choice
- Comment of the perfomance of the tuned models


Points7




Criteria
Model Performance Comparison, Final Model Selection, and Serialization- Compare the performances of all models built and choose the best model (with proper rationale)
- Check the performance of the best model on the test set
- Serialize the best model
- Load the serialized model and make predictions on the test set


Points7




Criteria
Deployment - Backend- Define the Flask API
- Define the dependencies
- Define the Dockerfile
- Create the Docker space in Hugging Face
- Upload the files to the space
- Share the link of the Hugging Face space


Points9




Criteria
Deployment - Frontend- Define the streamlit web application
- Define the dependencies file
- Create the Streamlit space in Hugging Face
- Upload the files to the space
- Share the link of the Hugging Face space


Points7


Criteria
Actionable Insights and Recommendations- Write down insights from the analysis conducted
- Provide actionable business recommendations


Points4




Criteria
Notebook - Overall quality- Structure and flow
- Well commented code
- All code executed and necessary output visible
- No Errors


Points8

