Project: Machine Learning: Personal Loan Campaign

Available From:10 Oct 25 8:00 AM
Due Date:16 Nov 25 11:59 PM
Total Marks:60
Submission Type:File Upload


Description
-----------

Context

AllLife Bank is a US bank that has a growing customer base. The majority of these customers are liability customers (depositors) with varying sizes of deposits. The number of customers who are also borrowers (asset customers) is quite small, and the bank is interested in expanding this base rapidly to bring in more loan business and in the process, earn more through the interest on loans. In particular, the management wants to explore ways of converting its liability customers to personal loan customers (while retaining them as depositors).
A campaign that the bank ran last year for liability customers showed a healthy conversion rate of over 9% success. This has encouraged the retail marketing department to devise campaigns with better target marketing to increase the success ratio.
You as a Data Scientist at AllLife Bank have to build a model that will help the marketing department to identify the potential customers who have a higher probability of purchasing the loan.

Objective

To predict whether a liability customer will buy personal loans, to understand which customer attributes are most significant in driving purchases, and to identify which segment of customers to target more.

Data Dictionary

ID: Customer ID
Age: Customer’s age in completed years
Experience: # years of professional experience
Income: Annual income of the customer (in thousand dollars)
ZIP Code: Home Address ZIP code.
Family: The family size of the customer
CCAvg: Average spending on credit cards per month (in thousand dollars)
Education: Education Level. 1: Undergrad; 2: Graduate;3: Advanced/Professional
Mortgage: Value of house mortgage if any. (in thousand dollars)
Personal_Loan: Did this customer accept the personal loan offered in the last campaign?
Securities_Account: Does the customer have a securities account with the bank?
CD_Account: Does the customer have a certificate of deposit (CD) account with the bank?
Online: Do customers use Internet banking facilities?
CreditCard: Does the customer use a credit card issued by any other Bank (excluding All Life Bank)?

Submission Guidelines

Kindly go through the instructions below before attempting the project.
The project submission should be asingle Python notebook in HTML (.html) format.
In case Jupyter Notebook is being used, the Python notebook can be exported as an HTML file from the File menu.
In case Google Colab (preferable) is being used, the Python notebook needs to be first downloaded as a .ipynb file from Colab and can then be converted and exported as an HTML file using this link.
Any assignment foundcopied/plagiarized from any source will not be evaluated and awarded zero marks.
Please ensure timely submission asany submission post-deadline will either not be accepted for evaluation or attract penalties.

Important Points to Note

Thoroughly read the problem statement and project rubricbefore starting to work on the project.
Apply the concepts and techniques you have learned in the previous weeks and summarise your insights at the end.
Pleaserun the code from start to end sequentially,add the observations and insightsas applicable, and thensubmit the file in the mentioned format.
Before submitting the file, pleasemake sure that all the sections mentioned in the rubric have been coveredand thecode outputs are clearly visiblein your submission.
If the code in the submission is correct but not executed, 50% of the marks will be deducted from the corresponding rubric section.
Kindly connect with the Program Manager in case of any confusion.
Power Ahead!

Rubric
------

Criteria  Define the problem and perform an Exploratory Data Analysis- Problem definition, questions to be answered
- Data background and contents
- Univariate analysis
- Bivariate analysis
- Key meaningful observations for each of the plot
Points10

Criteria  Data pre-processingPrepare the data for analysis:
- Missing Value Treatment (if needed)
- Outlier Detection (treat, if needed)
- Feature Engineering
- Data preparation for modelling
Points6

Criteria  Model building - Decision Tree- Define model evaluation criterion
- Build the model and comment on the model performance.
- Visualize the decision rules and important features
Points10

Criteria Model Performance Evaluation and Improvement- Try and improve the model performance by pruning (Both Post and Pre pruning)
- Check the performance of the pruned models, compare the performance of all the models built, and select the final model
- Find the decision rules and check feature importance for the final model
Points20

Criteria Actionable Insights & Recommendations- Conclude with the key takeaways for the marketing team 
- What would your advice be on how to do this campaign?
Points6

Criteria  Notebook Overall Quality- Structure and flow
- Well-commented code
- Conclusion and Business Recommendations
Points8

